Come back here and in this lesson or you will be continuing to build out our party applications so party
invite application.
So let's set up some of our h t m l.
So no we've got our party checklist over here.
We already have an area for the output.
So what I'm going to do is I'm actually going to bring this one downing underuse output because I do
want to have somewhere to put all of my party information and I want to keep that party invite checklist
there at the top so the next thing that we need is we actually need a way to.
We need some inputs so a way to add people into our guest list.
So type text and we're going to give it an idea.
So this is going to be our new guest name.
So this will give it a label here.
Guest name and then we also want to have plus we'll just have a plus sign there.
And this will just be the input and this will indicate how many additional people that users that guess
does actually bring.
So we're keeping within that same format that we originally laid out our data.
So this is going to be type and it's actually going to be number type because this is numeric and this
is h tim L5.
So it's not anything to do with javascript.
It's just that we can retrieve back that information in.
We're only going to be expecting to get a number of values there.
And by default I want to set a default value so I set the value as equal to zero.
And then lastly we need a way to add people so sorts to input time and this time let's do a button.
So the button will give us something to click that we can actually add people to.
So two value equals add
and I'm actually not going to give it a name because we want to be a little bit more creative within
this lesson on how we're making our selection and where you use Querrey selector in order to make our
selection.
But notice we didn't given an ID.
So this is just to make it a little bit more challenging for you.
So that's what they want you to do next is to hook up an event listener to the button.
And without using get element by ID using query selector.
So pause the video and create an input button with a value of ADD and create and grab that input as
an event at an event listener.
So whenever anyone clicks that button we want something we want a function to fire off.
So go ahead.
Pause the video and add data and I'll show you the solution coming up so we did want to have a way to
select that particular element and I'm going to create.
So this one will just be called Guest.
So this is the object and we need to use document in order to grab it.
And I did say that we're going to use Querrey selector and query selector allows us to select any one
of those elements within our page and we do it within the same format as CSSA.
So if and we know from SEE assess if we want to grab an input we can go input and we know we've got
a number of inputs so if we left it at input we would be out of luck there because we'd only be grabbing
the first input on query selector.
So a quick query selector works as it just grabs that first instance of that query.
And that's why we do type equals button just as if we did this and see SS We could identify this because
we've only got one type of button.
And even if we were to add additional ones down here as long as this one is first and the page we've
grabbed our element properly and then the next step is to add an event listener.
So because we've got it in the object we called it at guest we can do a event listener and then within
the event listener that we're going to be listening for is going to be click and then we're going to
fire off a function we'll pass over the event object as each and now we're ready to have our function.
So something happen whenever the user clicks the button.
So now let's set up the next part.
And this is where we actually need to grab those input values and I'm got to go back to use and get
element by ID.
And of course you're welcome to use query selector or any other way that you can grab those elements.
There's a number of different ones that we've gone through earlier.
So first of all we need to get the guest theme song going to just set up a variable g and document get
element by id and use guest name so that we can grab that.
And what we want to do is grab the value of that element.
Next one we need to grab the number so the number of additional guests.
Our guest is bringing so get element by id and let's identify this.
So guest number and it's always a it's always it's always good practice to try out different ways.
So I know we use most commonly we're always using get element by ID but do challenge yourself to push
yourself to try out different ways of making those Querrey selections and grabbing those elements into
your javascript.
So try to be creative and find different ways to make those selections and there's a number of them
that we have gone through before.
So next in that we would all we need to do is we need to add that user into the party array.
So just over here when we parse through that data object that we're getting from Jason Jason we're creating
that party object and we can push through and add in additional values into there.
So we see that we've got an array with three items in there.
Length of three.
So we know that we're ready to push an additional item so we can utilize this just as we normally would
any array.
And this is an array with objects as the items.
And that's where we're able to get more details just within that one entry.
So we've got push and first thing value that we need is a name.
So let's push a name in there.
Next thing that we need is we've got guests so let's add in the value of guests and then let's let's
start out with a default status because we're not actually grabbing the status and we want that status
to be clickable.
So I'm going to just set it up as false.
So there we go.
So now we're ready to add in people into the list.
So let's refresh it and try it out.
So if we add them in and if we go back to party we can see that now we've added in that fourth person.
And this is being added in as a string value.
So that's the other thing that we do need to take care of.
So let's convert that into a number and we have gone over two different ways.
So there's a number or we could parse integer.
So let's try this out one more time.
So I guess one and this time when I list the party in the console it should be a numeric value.
So there.
So they're all in within that same format.
So there's a string a number and a boolean So one thing that I did want to add is I want this value
actually.
So after we add them I want them to clear out.
So we don't actually keep having to click ADD and we also should have a message that this has been now
updated or something like that.
So let's let's update this.
And within the source code here.
Can you think of a way that once we click this that this will actually clear out to go back to a blank
value.
So it doesn't have a test in it and the user just isn't tempted to keep pressing it.
So can you think of a way to do that and I'll show you a way to do that as well.
So coming up so I hope you had an opportunity to try that out.
And what did you come up with.
Were you able to whenever you click click add that this would clear out.
So the easiest way.
We've already written some code so we can simply get rid of the values there and we can pick up these
elements as objects within our Javascript.
And that means that now I can reset the value to be blank and value and we're going to set that to zero.
So let's try though.
So let's refresh and let's type in test.
And whenever we add that we see that we're defaulting back to zero and we can also see that we've actually
added that value.
So that was the quickest way to do that.
There's a number of different solutions.
So whatever you were able to do if you were able to accomplish this then that's correct.
As long as we're able to make that accomplishment and clear out those values.
So the next thing that I want to do is I want to build out our list so it's actual visual.
And whenever we add somebody else in that it actually creates that part of the list.
So let's create a couple of functions and the first function is going to just build the list.
So it's going to build up the list from the party tree and then the other one.
So the other function is I want to have one that's called message.
And basically this is going to take in some parameters and it's going to output that visually so that
whenever we click this and we add the user we can see that value being added to the bottom of the list.
So we don't have to constantly keep rebuilding this list.
We're going to build at one time and then we're going to make javascript do all of the work in between
there.
So in order to build this out let's set up we're going to build it into output.
So this is where we're going to be outputting those values.
So let's grab output so variable output and grab it into an object so that we can make use of it.
So get element by id grabbing out output.
So now we're ready to make use of it.
And when we're passing it out into the message let's do output
inner h to M-L and we're going to just add to whatever that is.
Melas.
And so let's set up our string here and we don't need to pass in some information.
So let's let's take a message value.
And just check to make sure haven't so many variables called message of surpassing message.
Next we need to have the person or the guest and then next let's have the
ID.
So this is one that we can make use of and this is how we can identify what value here is tied to the
ideas here where the index values within that array.
So this is index or ID within the array within the party array.
So that way we can make updates so we can remove it and we can basically identify it.
So let's set that up.
And now we know that let's let's set up the h t m l.
So every time that gets clicked let's do div and I'll have a class here.
So this class will basically allow us to toggle those values so we'll be able to check them in.
We're going to have some data so I'll have one data ID.
And this is the information that we're going to use to pick up within the Javascript.
So we need to pass through that ID value.
So a single quote double quotes and is want to make sure I got that single double quote single quotes.
I know you can't really read that but so this is double quote.
And then that's a single quote to break out of our string and then we can jump back into the javascript.
Next one we're going to add a whole bunch of these data values because we need to make use of it whenever
these values get clicked.
And so that's where we're adding it within this type of format.
So the next one is person.
So we get that person's name the guests name break back in court so that our team is formatted properly
and let's add a span in here.
And so this is where whatever message content we want to add in so we can just go with a single quote
there.
So breaking out of the JavaScript single code again and we're going to close off that spam.
So this is basically our message.
And either that they've they've accepted it's true or false or we are going to use checkmarks or x'.
And then lastly one more time we're breaking out of our strip and adding in person so we can visually
see that person value there.
And then last thing we need to just close off that.
So let's go up to here where we're adding a guest and as we're adding in this guest let's push these
values before we actually have those values.
And I'm actually going to change this to m just because I'm using message at the function.
So just to avoid confusion we'll just use the variable.
So message so what parameters do we need to pass in here.
And we saw that the first one is the basic message.
So I said I was going to use X's and checkmarks.
So I'll use this type of X..
So this is some A.S.C. character X..
Just to make it more interesting.
The next one is that we need to pass through the number of guests where we actually need to pass in
the person's name so that was the G value is the person's name.
But I also want to add the number of guests and we don't actually need to track that unless we want
to update it.
So I just put yes.
Or we can just do plus.
So this is just a visual plus and then bring it back out of the string.
So no we've got a couple of pluses there in a row.
So this one is a string plus.
So this is just visual.
And then this is to concatenate the rest of those values.
And this one is going to be it doesn't actually matter it doesn't have to be a number value that we're
passing through there because this is all part of one string.
So basically it's going to tell us how many guests.
And then lastly we need to get the index value and we know over here we're adding it into the array.
So how do we get the index value of the next available item in the array.
How do we know that the next one we enter is going to be 4.
And if you're looking at this you can see that the answer is right here that we know that we've got
the length of the array.
And the next value is going to be whatever the length is.
So that's where we can just put in party length.
So let's try to go back refreshed the page and I'm going to add in test and we'll do five and we'll
add it.
So there we go.
So we're adding in that person.
We've got test plussed five.
And when I list out party we can see that we've got that next person there.
So the next lesson we need to still build out our visual list.
So that's what we're going to do here.
And then after that we need to make this functional where we can toggle that the person is checked off
and we can toggle the check to be either an X or a check depending on true or false.
So all of that is coming up.
So what I want you to do now between the next lesson is build out the list.
So build out this function that we can call whenever the page loads.
So set that window on load calling the function of build list and we want to build out all of those
values that are sitting within Jason.
Jason so build out all three of these and build that out as soon as the page loads and all she had to
do that in the next lesson.